If I wanted to serve the documentation
site internally instead of on
GitHub Pages, and I saw on the
documentation and said, Doc, you Saurus.
>> Yep,
>> Burn those markdown files into
a documentation site.
I'm assuming that's the answer, but
they wanted to know a few of them.
Any other thoughts?
So we made it very clear how you could
end up with mark down API documentation.
And we got a question in the class about,
you know,
like if you're not using GitHub,
how do you get from mark down files?
To something more meaningful,
right to maybe a static site,
like you put somewhere,
put it on an s3 bucket or you know,
just serve it up with engine x,
something like that.
So.
I would say like I've
tried these dinosaurs and
has not been so successful with this.
What I have done before is Oops, sorry.
I have used let's see, it's not this.
It's this, So
this is a fantastic little ecosystem.
It's a part of this thing
called the unified collective.
And it sounds kind of like
a hippie commune or something.
But the idea is they want to have
a sts Abstract Syntax trees for
things like HTML And
text and restructured text,
which is what like a lot of the Python
community is this, and mark down.
So there's this unified collective
that sort of at the top level remark
is the mark down specific variant of it.
And this is super, super,
super good at taking in mark
down as input and spitting out HTML and
there are a slew of,
Fantastic little plugins they
should surely have a list of them.
Here they are.
Lots of plugins.
What is the red mean?
Currently broken, but a lot of green ones.
And I actually maintain a couple of these.
The green ones you know,
like here we go compile markdown to react,
help you could drop these.
I believe I'm not a Gatsby expert, but
I hear Gatsby takes in, like MDX files or
something, something that's very,
very close to markdown.
You could just feed into that.
I like that It's your job to take it
this last little mile because frankly,
for s doc and for for type doc for
js doc and why UI doc,
all these things they just kind of
they're let down in the end right?
They don't have good search And
I think the world needs some of these.
They need a better solution here and
markdown is a perfectly
acceptable sort of end result.
If you don't like that,
use the JSON files.
There's another thing This.
So if you read the API documenter.
guides, they mentioned that this Microsoft
Project also works with API extractor.
And they describe it as like if API
if API document or is the go kart.
This is the space shuttle.
And this is incredibly rich.
And frankly, it's a bit complicated
because it's designed to work with
like any programming language
that you might need, right.
It's what's used for this site for
doc stop Microsoft comm right where you
get this nice syntax highlighting
the ability to copy things like this.
You get It is incredibly rich.
It is also very, very,
very challenging to set up at this time.
So, here's the good news.
If you're looking to make
an impact in open source,
you can figure out how
to make this turnkey.
It should not be too difficult to do.
Maybe not doc effects.
But just something that works really well
with API Extractor and API Documentor.
If you wanna make a Great Gatsby
pipeline that's just ready to go and
accepts this stuff, I think it
could be really, really popular.
I think it would take off.
That's the short answer.
It's an opportunity.
With GitHub buying NPM and NPM,
involving with seven with workspaces,
what do you feel as far as
the direction they're going?
I'm in opposed to like yarn workspaces,
and
learn a All right I feel like I should
first say I'm a Microsoft employee,
which I mean, my Microsoft owns LinkedIn,
who I work for.
They also and GitHub.
GitHub runs NPM.
So, I cannot possibly have
an unbiased opinion here.
I will say, I work with yarn and
NPM Had some challenges with it and
I have not like,
I found that sometimes I
would report bugs to NPM and
they would be classified as ideas.
Right.
So I think I have more faith in
the management of the yarn project at
this time.
I think that there's room for
two package managers or three or four.
I just see yarn as the best thing in,
October of 2020.
I feel like it is the best thing for
my needs in this ecosystem.
And I think that that They've
provided a good solution
in this space that minimises
foot gun kind of problems.
>> Yeah, there's another question
along the lines of learn on not being
super active anymore.
>> All right, so the question we got in
the class was Like somebody noticed that
learner appears to be short on maintainers
at this time in october 2020 and
that's a real thing that's
happening right now.
There's sort of a bottleneck where there
are a lot of people are hoping things will
get fixed and they have poll requests that
are opened and it takes effort to manage
these projects and it seems like
>> There's slow advancement at this time.
Here's what I think is important to
know as a viewer of this course,
learner is a tool that we
use to carry out a job.
And it the only trace it leaves in
your project is that config file,
learn dot JSON.
So don't feel like you're
heavily buying into it.
An ecosystem where the future's uncertain.
It just does some things and other tools
in this space like bolt potentially, or
the rush stack, which is what Microsoft
uses for its TypeScript project.
Or, you know, even like yarn
workspaces won't become that tool.
It has clearly stated that
just want to be a low level.
API they,
like yarn workspaces is where it ends and
they're not trying to become
the learner in the space.
So don't worry too much
about being locked in.
I don't see it happening that way.
I do see that it everything else that
is being built right now that's new and
shiny.
In the mono repo space.
It's kind of standing
on learners shoulders.
Right?
So like don't the good things that
look like they might be better than
learn out there only that way because
of what they learned from Lerna But
yeah, these things happen.
So I don't think that learner
will necessarily be around the de
facto solution forever.
Just because some people have
some new ideas and in particular,
I think for tools like these people
are starting to write them in in rust and
just trying to make the CI tools as fast
and snappy and responsive as possible.
>> That might be the path forward.
Just don't don't stress about it too
much because you're not locked in.
You can always ditch learner and
get whatever's next.
The concept of a mono repo is more closely
linked to the node require resolve
algorithm and the idea of workspaces that
is going nowhere from what I can see,
So any tool that aims to work in
that space will continue to work.
And you'll just swap one out for
the other.
So, a question came up in class
about version two documentation.
This is super important and
also why I like to check my
markdown docs into GitHub.
Because what that lets me do is just
sort of roll back, roll forward, etc.
Not a whole lot of documentation, hosting
sites, support versioning all that well.
But what we do at LinkedIn,
we have a Think of it like,
we have S3 buckets where we
can just toss static sites.
And we just build the version
number into the URL scheme.
So when we create a tarball and
we publish it and
we'll say this is slack slash types.
Version, 007, publish.
And then we'll have our
doc site that users had,
where we just iframe the appropriate
versions of things into place.
So you could like, potentially, you could
just run a command in your project,
and it'll bake the right versions
of things into query puram.
And then you can kind of just fetch
the right things from the right places.
That's a tricky problem thought.
I think once, there's a good way
to publish this kind of thing,
then versioning gets a lot easier.
Just to recap what we've done,
we started with a pretty
empty monorepo or
not even a monorepo, right?
We started with Yarn and
knit, very basic project.
We went with yarn workspaces.
We added tests linting,
we learned about scripting.
So you can consolidate your shell scripts,
right?
Get get that scripting out
of your package JSON and
into a place where you can manage it.
You can work on it like
it's code because it is.
We use learner.
And we, we experienced the difference
between yarn workspaces and learner.
We know what learner does now.
And we know the line between
yarn workspaces and learner.
And then we talked about
extracting your API surface.
API documentation.
And then probably a new
pattern to many of you.
building an app based mono repo,
where we're not just dealing with,
you know, the UI kit, like use case.
But we're we're using this as a way for
teams to have the benefit
of encapsulated libraries.
Sort of layer their way up to
a more complicated application.
I hope this was useful for you.
And I hope that you learned some tricks
that you'll take back to your teams.
Because this is a tricky area of
the JavaScript and TypeScript ecosystem.
And part of the reason I do this is to
make sure that, I learned the hard way and
you don't have to So
thanks very much for your attention.
Have a great rest of the day.